### Gaussian Noise (GN) model 高斯噪声模型
- Poggiolini P, Bosco G, Carena A, Curri V, Jiang Y, Forghieri F. A detailed analytical derivation of the GN model of non-linear interference in coherent optical transmission systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:12090394 2012. 详细推导
- Carena A, Curri V, Bosco G, Poggiolini P, Forghieri F. Modeling of the Impact of Nonlinear Propagation Effects in Uncompensated Optical Coherent Transmission Links. Journal of Lightwave Technology 2012, 30(10): 1524-1539. 包含接收信号高斯分布的分析
- D'Amico A, Correia B, London E, Virgillito E, Borraccini G, Napoli A, Curri V. Scalable and Disaggregated GGN Approximation Applied to a C+L+S Optical Network. Journal of Lightwave Technology 2022: 1-1. 较新的拓展
- Poggiolini P. The GN Model of Non-Linear Propagation in Uncompensated Coherent Optical Systems. Journal of Lightwave Technology 2012, 30(24): 3857-3879. 好文
- Poggiolini P, Bosco G, Carena A, Curri V, Jiang Y, Forghieri F. The GN-model of fiber non-linear propagation and its applications. Journal of lightwave technology 2013, 32(4): 694-721. 好文
- Roberts I, Kahn JM, Harley J, Boertjes DW. Channel Power Optimization of WDM Systems Following Gaussian Noise Nonlinearity Model in Presence of Stimulated Raman Scattering. Journal of Lightwave Technology 2017, 35(23): 5237-5249. 好文，SRS详细分析
- Semrau D, Killey RI, Bayvel P. A Closed-Form Approximation of the Gaussian Noise Model in the Presence of Inter-Channel Stimulated Raman Scattering. Journal of Lightwave Technology 2019, 37(9): 1924-1936.  **ISRSGN**
- Semrau D, Sillekens E, Killey RI, Bayvel P. A Modulation Format Correction Formula for the Gaussian Noise Model in the Presence of Inter-Channel Stimulated Raman Scattering. Journal of Lightwave Technology 2019, 37(19): 5122-5131. ISRSGN矫正
- Ferrari A, Filer M, Balasubramanian K, Yin Y, Le Rouzic E, Kundrát J, Grammel G, Galimberti G, Curri V. GNPy: an open source application for physical layer aware open optical networks. Journal of Optical Communications and Networking 2020, 12(6): C31. 开源工具
- Carena A, Bosco G, Curri V, Jiang Y, Poggiolini P, Forghieri F. EGN model of non-linear fiber propagation. Optics express 2014, 22(13): 16335-16362.


### Why GN model?
- Carena A, Bosco G, Curri V, Poggiolini P, Taiba MT, Forghieri F. Statistical characterization of PM-QPSK signals after propagation in uncompensated fiber links.  36th European Conference and Exhibition on Optical Communication; 2010: IEEE; 2010. p. 1-3. 色散未补偿相干链路中信号传输的高斯分布
- Poggiolini P, Bosco G, Carena A, Cigliutti R, Curri V, Forghieri F, Pastorelli R, Piciaccia S. The LOGON strategy for low-complexity control plane implementation in new-generation flexible networks.  2013 Optical Fiber Communication Conference and Exposition and the National Fiber Optic Engineers Conference (OFC/NFOEC); 2013: IEEE; 2013. p. 1-3. GN模型推论之LOGO大法
- Serena P, Bononi A. The nonlinear signal-noise interaction in coherent links and its implications in system design.  2015 European Conference on Optical Communication (ECOC); 2015: IEEE; 2015. p. 1-3. GN模型下非线性的累积分析
- Pastorelli R, Piciaccia S, Griseri E, Forghieri F. Analytical extension of LOGO approach for commercial optical networks and experimental validation.  2015 Fotonica AEIT Italian Conference on Photonics Technologies; 2015: IET; 2015. p. 1-4. LOGO策略实验分析
- Cantono M, Auge JL, Curri V. Modelling the impact of SRS on NLI generation in commercial equipment: An experimental investigation.  2018 Optical Fiber Communications Conference and Exposition (OFC); 2018: IEEE; 2018. p. 1-3. **SRS效应对于NLI影响的实验分析**
- Cantono M, Pilori D, Ferrari A, Carena A, Curri V. Observing the Interaction of PMD with Generation of NLI in Uncompensated Amplified Optical Links.  2018 Optical Fiber Communications Conference and Exposition (OFC); 2018: IEEE; 2018. p. 1-3. PMD对NLI的影响
- Pastorelli R, Bosco G, Carena A, Poggiolini P, Curri V, Piciaccia S, Forghieri F. Investigation of the dependence of non-linear interference on the number of WDM channels in coherent optical networks.  European Conference and Exhibition on Optical Communication; 2012: Optica Publishing Group; 2012. p. We. 2. C. 2. **工程好文，NLI与波数之间的关系**


### Fiber bend loss 光纤弯折
- Wang P, Wang Q, Farrell G, Rajan G, Freir T, Cassidy J. Investigation of macrobending losses of standard single mode fiber with small bend radii. Microwave and Optical Technology Letters. 2007 Sep;49(9):2133-8.
- Faustini L, Martini G. Bend loss in single-mode fibers. Journal of lightwave technology. 1997 Apr;15(4):671-9.